# DeNTAS-De-Novo-Transcriptome-Analysis-Statistics

This file contains a basic description of DeNTAS', details of the web design and developent. 

# Web design and development 

Each of the HTML documents contain a navigation menu which allows the user to easily navigate between web pages within the same website. It also contains hyperlinks to other external web pages such as DeNTAS GitHub repository which contains all the files associated with the development of the software.

1. Index.html: welcomes the user and contains a ‘GET STARTED’ button that takes the user to the next web page.
2. About.html: contains short paragraph describing the project mission.
3. Choose_uploads.html: allows the user to input the experimental groups as they fit (from 1 to 3). The user then can browse the files and upload them successfully.
4. Upload.html: uses a python ‘for loop’ to fill a form with the name of the samples and a dropdown box allowing the user to select their experimental group. The information from this form is then requested by Flask and fed into the data analysis.
5. Results.html: displays the R graphics output generated by the R analysis and table showing all significantly expressed genes generated by the BLAST analysis.

# Cascading Style Sheets (CSS)

CSS is concerned with the representation of the web pages it is implemented in the HTML documents; all fonts, background images, sizes and colours. The CSS code is contained within the <style> tags in the HTML documents. Web browsers use this information when opening HTML documents.CSS makes the documents much easier to maintain and give much better control over the layout of the web pages. The same CSS code can be applied across multiple web pages to add more flexibility. This makes it easier to maintain and keep the consistency across multiple documents

# JavaScript and JQuery 

JavaScript is dynamic and object-oriented programming language. Alongside HTML and CSS, JavaScript is supported by the majority of the web browsers. JavaScript is an untyped language, meaning that the variables are not type-specified. It enables executable content within the web pages to be included. It can include programs that interactively engage the user and dynamically control the HTML content. To introduce a user interactive element to the results page, we made use of JQuery - a “fast, small, and feature-rich JavaScript library”. JQuery, along with the two additional JQuery plugins, jquery.csvToTable and jquery.tablesorter.dev.js, are stored within DeNTAS’ ‘../static/js/’ subfolder. Links to the js scripts are incorporated into the header of each of our results page, allowing the ('#table').CSVToTable() and ('table').tablesorter() functions to be called within the results html page. This facilitates the dynamic rendering of the differential gene expression results table stored within DeNTAS’ ‘../static/results/tables’ folder. As an additional feature, we added a search bar and wrote a JavaScript function directly into the results html pages that enables searching of the results table and displays, only those rows found by the search. Also, a JavaScript alert popup box is generated to display information to the user about the R graphics output. To generate a JavaScript alert popup box, an ‘alert()’ function was introduced within <script> tags and a short paragraph describing each of the graphs was written within the empty brackets. A corresponding </script> tag was introduced for each respective <script> tag, telling the web browser that the command is completed.


